---
date: 2025-05-30
id: 30may25
tags: poetry, writing, events
---

<p>Found some old notes from an online poetry workshop last year from the <a href="https://emergingwritersfestival.org.au/" rel="noopener">Emerging Writers Festival</a> on 6 Sep 2024: Erasure &amp; The Burning Haibun, hosted by Muntia Tafassum Ahmed.</p>
<ul>
    <li>Erasure attempts to conceal and reveal: a beautiful juxtaposition.</li>
    <li>Erasure is a collaboration/conversation between two texts: one old, one new.</li>
    <li>Erasure doesn't have to be just crossed out newsprint lines, it can be an art form. Fade out the original text so you can still read it, or keep the erased text next to the original.</li>
    <li>Make drawings to mask the erasures for a mixed media effect.</li>
    <li>Create erasure with your writing: cross out words/phrases for two stories in one work.</li>
    <li>What impact do you want it to have on the source text?</li>
    <li>The haibun gained popularity in late 17th century Japan: a prose poem starting with autobiographical or non-fiction prose and closing with a metaphorical haiku.</li>
    <li>The burning haibun is an erasure twist on the original created by Torrin A. Greathouse: it finds the closing haiku in the original opening prose.</li>
    <li>The original haibun focuses on the external world, the burning on the internal.</li>
    <li>Lowercase source text unifies the erasure.</li>
    <li>A fascinating concept to play with for a burning haibun is a memory you have a different opinion of than when it originally happened.</li>
</ul>
